All right. Hey everybody. How are you doing? Uh
my name is Greg. I lead student outreach here at
Anthropic and I am so excited to be sharing the
stage with some of the brightest young minds in
AI. Um just a little context for this panel. So
uh at Anthropic, we've given out uh API credits
to thousands of students to help them build things
at school. Um, and so what you're about to see is
a very small glimpse at what students have been
creating with those API credits. Um, it's a very
wide variety of things as you're about to notice.
Some of these projects are very humorous and
funny. Some of these projects are very serious and
important. Um, some of these students are working
on one project and some of these students
have been building an app every single week
throughout all of 2025. Um, so, uh, I think if I
was going to sum up what I've learned from running
this program, it's that the the future is really
really bright in the hands of these students. So,
without further ado, I'm going to invite up
our first speaker, Isabelle from Stanford.
All right, thank you for having me. It's a
privilege to be here. My name is Isabelle. I'm
a senior at Stanford where I study aeronautics
and astronautics and I'm doing my honors in
international security and today I'm here to
talk to you about my honors work which is on
finding nuclear weapons in outer space and how I
used Claude to help me do it. Um so for those of
you that may not know article 4 of the outer space
treaty bans the placement of nuclear weapons in
outer space. Now other arms control agreements
that you may have heard of like start and new
start include provisions for verification
and monitoring. So nations are shown to be
compliant with their treaty obligations using
inspection systems. We have on-site inspections
where inspectors will go and look at each other's
delivery vehicles and inspect for the presence of
nuclear warheads. We don't have anything like
that for outer space mostly because we signed
the outer space treaty in 1967 and there were no
technologies to do that kind of inspection. Right?
How would you go about approaching a satellite
in orbit that might be carrying a nuclear
weapon and inspecting it for the presence
of such a device? Daunting for the 1960s,
daunting today. Um, and this became a problem
recently in 2024 in April of last year. Um,
the Biden administration announced that the United
States assesses that Russia is developing a space
vehicle that carries a nuclear weapon. Now, this
was pretty destabilizing for the international
community. We've had a lot of dispute in the UN
Security Council recently about how to handle this
um potential violation of the Outer Space Treaty.
Given that we don't have a verification mechanism
for compliance with the Outer Space Treaty, I
started to wonder if it would be possible to
implement such a system, particularly given that
the US Space Force tracks 44,800 space objects
today. How would you begin to know which one of
those is the suspected nuclear weapon? So this
brings me to my research question. Is it feasible
to perform an inspace inspection mission where you
inspect a target satellite for the presence of a
nuclear warhead on board? Daunting question. Um
has a lot of interesting technical and political
facets to it. Um but for one particular aspect of
it, I was able to use claude to my advantage. Um
so I looked at the specifically the feasibility
of detecting the nuclear weapon with an X-ray
system. So you fly an X-ray source and detector on
two different inspector satellites in space, have
them rendevous with the suspected nuclear warhead
target and scan it for the presence of a nuclear
weapon in board. I wanted to know if this was ever
would ever be possible. No one's ever tried using
X-rays in space. There are interesting questions
around whether the space background environment
is there's too much noise in space to detect
the source signal. Um so I built a computational
simulation to see if this would ever be possible
and to do it I used claude. I used this very
complicated CERN um software package called Gant
4. I am not a particle physicist. I did not know
how to approach this software package um and write
this C++ code. But I was able to make a desktop
application to do my simulation using claude. Um
and it was incredibly exciting. It worked. So what
you're seeing in this picture is like a very very
quick snapshot of an X-ray image taken in space.
Um and you see a little hole in the middle that
shows you that there's very very dense file
material on board the target of the scan. So
indeed in this simulation there was a simulated
nuclear warhead on board this satellite target.
Um the outcomes for this are pretty significant
and interesting, right? There are a lot of
um people in the national security intelligence
community in this country that are interested in
developing this kind of capability to inspect
adversary spacecraft on orbit to understand
their capabilities, particularly whether they
might carry a weapon of mass destruction. Um so
having done this research, I actually am going
to be able to brief it in Washington DC to some
policy makers at the Pentagon um and state. I'm
really thrilled about that opportunity. Um and
certainly the desktop application with this level
of fidelity would not have been possible without
modern AI tools um to make this kind of research
accessible to an undergrad in less than a year. My
takeaways for you um kind of as a student um doing
research in the era of AI is just that primarily
there is no learning curve that is too steep
any longer. Right? even the toughest problems,
space technologies, notoriously hard, nuclear
weapons, existential threats. Um, we can address
these critical crises um with the tools that we
have today with emerging technology. Um, and so I
want to challenge all of the minds here and other
students to think about like what are the world's
toughest problems like what are the problems
that you thought were unadressable um that feel
like existential crises to you um for the next
generation? Those are the ones that we should be
using our brand new shiny exciting AI assistants
um to work on um because that's how we're going
to help make the world safer and more secure or
at least outer space more secure. So, thank you.
I'm going to pass it off
to the next presenter now,
but if you have any questions, I'd
love to talk after the presentation.
Okay, so it's kind of tough to follow up finding
nuclear objects in space. So I'm going to tell you
about how I did not know the difference between
the terminal and the code editor and why claude
is the reason why I was able to learn how to
code. I'm a student at UC Berkeley. My name is
Mason Arditi and I'll go ahead and get started.
So I want to talk about what we think of as the
traditional way to approach learning how to code.
I'm going to call this the bottom up way where we
start by taking basic classes, learn our basic
skills, and then build apps with those skills.
Slowly but surely, we level up our skill set and
build apps that are more complicated. I learned a
little bit differently. I'm going to call this
the top down approach where I had an idea as I
get inspired and I had no idea how to solve it. It
was software I've never coded before. So, I try to
have AI make it for me. Hey, make this app for me.
And then when it inevitably fails, I learn how to
do it myself. Slowly but surely, learning through
different layers of abstraction until I actually
understand what's going on. Now, where did this
leave me 7 months ago? It left me not knowing
what the terminal uh what the difference between
the terminal and the code editor was. I put npx
create next app latest uh in my page file. I had
no idea what I was doing. But slowly but surely,
I asked, why is this happening? What am I doing
wrong? and I was able to learn more complicated
skills. Let me show you a demo of something I'm
capable of doing now. Okay. Welcome to CalgBt,
which is a better way to schedule your Cal courses
using AI. Asking a question like, "Show me math
classes with a high average grade since I want to
be lazy in my math and get an easy curve." Here,
it's going to show us five different classes that
have an average of A or more. And in fact, it even
showed us classes with a grade point average of
4.0. Can't really get much better than that. Now,
let's say it's getting late in the enrollment
cycle and I want to see classes that still have
open seats. Show me history classes that still
have open seats. And this is drawing directly
from Berkeley time. So, it's live data. And
here it is. It's showing you history classes,
five seats, 20 seats, or three seats. We can even
ask it questions that are more deep like what is
the meaning of life? And do with that answer as
you will. But this is CalgBt. My name is Mason and
enjoy your day. I'll show you another one which
I developed at the pair and anthropic hackathon
as well. Okay, welcome to get ready which is
a new way to visualize and understand new code
bases. Let's take a look at anthropics uh SDK
for TypeScript for example. You'll see soon and
we'll be able to interact with the chart and see
how all of these files interact with each other.
So here we have a mapping of some of the most
important files. We chose not to display all
of them. Uh just the most important ones
that the user will interact with the most.
And we have these lines to show how they're
interconnected. And we do this through the
function calls that are actually like in each
file. So like if this demo TypeScript file is
uh referencing the batch results, that's where
the line comes in. And then over here we have
just a quick description on what the file actually
does. And we have our comments on the codebase.
Okay. And on top of these two, I built many
projects over the course of my learning how
to code. Uh, now what is the point of me showing
you all of this? I'm not here to brag. I'm here
to say that Claude is the reason why I was able to
learn how to code. Without Claude, without these
AI tools, including Cursor, Windsurf, whatever
you guys want to use, none of this would have
been possible. And the key takeaway for me is
that you can build anything you want nowadays.
You just have to ask the right questions, learn
through the different layers of abstraction. I
think this is representative of a new style of
building and a new class of builders. Uh where
my flow personally is I find a problem that
I'm inspired by and want to fix. I realize the
solution is something that I have no idea how to
do. Uh, and then I have a highle chat with Claude,
execute steps in the actual editor. Uh, and then
record and post a demo when it's not perfect,
hopefully bringing users and revenue later on.
But this iteration cycle instead of taking years
for an undergraduate degree or doing other
things uh can be one day to one week maximum
if you really want to. So I'll keep it short and
sweet and leave you guys with a couple of things
to think about which are on my mind right now. uh
which is how can we build to get users and revenue
uh not for technical perfection and impressiveness
uh how can I build things as fast and as simply
as possible as demonstrated by this prompt
uh give it to me in the simplest and most
concise way possible is what I'm always
doing uh what ideas actually inspire you
and how can we build it today and lastly not
on the slide but what does it mean to really
know how to code does it mean understanding
every single line and every single function
or does it mean being able to build something
that actually improves people's lives? Uh,
I'm going to continue to post more information. If
you want to connect with me, you can scan this QR
code. Uh, but my name is M. My name is Mason.
Uh, thank you guys. And, uh, yeah. [Applause]
All right. What is up, everyone? How are we all
doing? We good? Yeah. Um, my name is Rohill. Um,
I'm a freshman or just finished freshman year at
UC Berkeley in the ME program studying EEKES and
business. So, CS and business and I'm here to
talk to you guys today about SideQuest, which
is a project that a couple friends and I made at
uh the pair xanthropic hackathon recently. So,
let me tell you guys about a big problem today
is AI embodiment. So, we see like in hacker news,
in the newest news all around that we're trying to
create bots that interact with our world. And most
recently, we've seen these robot dogs that are
able to like deliver you a water cup or something
like that. But these systems like do not compete
with humans ourselves. Humans are like built to
interact with our world. And that brings me to
here, which is that today we have humans hiring
AI agents to do their work for them. I'm sure all
of you guys have probably employed some sort of AI
agent to do your work for you. But today with Side
Quest, we are flipping the script. And we have AI
agents hiring humans to do their work for them.
So AI agents obviously are amazing at interacting
with the digital world and humans are amazing at
dig at interacting with the physical world. So
why can't these AI agents just hire the humans?
So that brings me to the architecture of side
quest which is basically like let me give you
a hypothetical example. Let's say an AI agent
is trying to host a hackathon. So now they have
all the logistics covered, but they need to um
put some advertising material up. They need some
flyers up so that people can find out where this
hackathon is, where to go. Um but they don't have
any physical means to do that. So what they do is
that they ping the nearest human to that area and
tell them, "Oh, pick up this flyer, put it in this
location, and live stream that video to me, and as
soon as I can see that you did it, then I'll give
you money." So, that's exactly what's happening
in Side Quest. And I I'll show you a short demo.
Hello world. My AI friends and I are hosting an
hackathon. Let's check if the flyers are up. So,
we see a flyer here. Flyer detected. But we do
not see a flyer here. No flyer detected. Bro,
I need a human to put on some flyers in
room two. Let's do this. Baring baram.
It looks like there's a quest. So, I have to
collect three posters from table 8. Let's do
it. So, over here there's a live video
stream that Claude is actively looking
at and verifying whether you're doing I
found table eight. Let's see the posters.
Boom. Scanned. It says I have
to set them up in Strong. Yes.
We're here at Strong. Yes. Now, let's set up
the poster. And perfect. I think that should
be good. Let's scan it. Booyah. I made 100
bucks. Let's go. And boom. We're done. We're
ready for the hackathon. Yep. And that's side
quest. So, let me talk a little bit about what
I learned with building with Claude is that
first Claude is really smart as with like any
of these AI systems these days and they can reason
through many messy edge cases. So, we as humans,
we don't need to prompt every little nitty-gritty
thing. We can start thinking about bigger picture
um parts of building products. Secondly, we
should design um like with a back and forth
workflow with these AI systems. Like originally
we are thinking like upfront, oh, how should I
build this whole big thing? But that's a really
big task. You can break it down, ask Claude,
oh like what are the different things that I need
to do to to work on something and let's build this
step by step. So with this iterative process,
you can build um like very robust systems.
So bottom line is that you should trust AI and
trust claude. Um that they aren't things that
you have to micromanage. They can think on their
own as well. And now some takeaways for builders
to be like this cool guy, not this grumpy guy.
Is that um is that you should think of AI as
a system rather than just a feature builder.
that this is someone that you can like talk to,
reason with. And secondly, as like thinking
bigger picture about us as humans is that we
should be system designers first or architects um
of like the things that we're building because in
the future we aren't going to be the ones writing
the small code. We'll be the ones dictating what
code to write. So that brings me to the end. Um
thank you guys so much. Have a great day. Byebye.
All right, good afternoon everyone.
I'm Daniel. I study computer science
at USC and I've also built projects across
Amazon, IBM and various startups. Um, yeah,
very honored to be here as a student speaker
today. For more context, I help USC lead some
of the entrepreneurship programs and over the
past year, Claude has been integral to many
of our projects, powering innovative solutions
across various domains. When Anthropic announced
the hackathon at USC, a lot of the students,
including my teammates Vishnu, Shabbayan,
and myself were naturally very eager to join in
and explore new directions with Claude. Today,
I'm honored to share our journey and insights
with you. So, let's first start by looking at
the problem. Current LLMs are great at giving
answers, but when decisions really matter,
one general response just isn't enough most of
the time. Whether it's business, healthcare,
or policy, high stakes decisions require
diverse input and deep analysis. Today,
getting those perspectives means prompting an LLM
multiple times, which could be slow, inconsistent,
and very manual. Knowing that Claude excels at
complex reasoning as one of its most impressive
capabilities, that's the gap that we aim to solve
for our hackathon. Introducing Claude Cortex,
a system designed to emulate a panel of experts.
each analyzing the problem from a different angle.
It dynamically creates specialized agents tailored
to your problem context and enables parallel
processing for diverse insights. The output
here is a more synthesized and well-rounded
recommendation enhancing output quality for
decision-m. It's basically like having your
own strategy team for each prompt. So yeah, let
me show you how it works with a really simple
example to test out the agents. So let's say I
want to learn how to use langraph specifically
by researching its documentation. I also want
to share that finding with my teammates. I would
type that in as a single prompt and let the
master agent interpret that request and spin
a different agents which in this case will
need a browser agent to search and extract
relevant information from langraph documentation.
a research agent to summarize the key concepts in
plain link language as well as a notes agent to
generate clear explanations which it then shares
with my teammates automatically. Each agent will
work independently but they can communicate with
one another creating a multi- aent system
that gives more comprehensive insights.
Now for sectors where data security and compliance
are paramount cloud cortex offers a secured mode
by integrating with AWS bedrock. It ensures that
all operations meet privacy standards making it
ideal for sensitive environments. The rest of
our architecture is also very straightforward.
The front end was built with Nex and Tailwind.
The backend leverages fast API in lane graph
for orchestrating multi-agent workflows. And
claude of course powers our agents reasoning
with the addition of browser use which allows
agents to fetch real-time web data and enhance
their analytical capabilities. Claude Cortex
represents a shift in the way we use language
models. Moving away from simply generating
responses to structuring parallel reasoning
pathways and delivering more comprehensive
insights. It's versatile making it valuable
across various sectors from corporate strategy
to public health safety. Now the key takeaways
from building cloud cortex are very intuitive.
But the main two points here that I want to
emphasize are that when agent outputs were more
focused and well structured like JSON format um
cloud synthesis became more nuanced and high high
quality. It struggled however when upstream agents
were more vague and just dumped text blobs into
the into the uh stream and then uh dynamic task
creation allows for flexibility. What that
means is we first started off by creating
um five predefined agents for every scenario.
However, we later realized that having a master
agent to decide what tasks and agents
to create allowed for more accurate and
relevant information. What we're building
with Claude Cortex sets at a broader trend.
Claude is powering a large number of studentled
products at USC. We've seen tools for lawyers to
process case files faster, apps that help people
retain and connect knowledge more effectively,
and software that can automate documentation and
progress updates. Claude's ability to read deeply,
summarize clearly, and follow structure is what
makes all of this possible. Looking ahead, as a
student building with Claude, the most powerful
applications I've seen aren't just asking Claude
for answers. They're using it as infrastructure,
something that you can wire into your workflows
and something that you can orchestrate like a
system. And that's the shift that we see as well.
We we imagine agent agents that can collaborate
with one another, tools that can reflect and
context that can compound. In summary,
Claude Cortex isn't another AI tool. It's
a leap towards a more intelligent, secure, and
multi-dimensional decision-making process. As we
continue to refine and expand its capabilities,
we invite you to explore its potential and join
us in shaping the future of AIdriven solutions.
Here's the team behind Cloud Cortex. We're all
student builders and we're all Yeah. builders
and student leaders at USC and we would love to
discuss more. So, please feel free to reach
out to us whenever. I'm Daniel Gao and it's
been a pleasure sharing our work with you.
Thank you for your time and attention today.
Thank you.